[Tasks] Adds image captioning (#21512)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/tasks/image_captioning.mdx

the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Image captioning

[[open-in-colab]]

Image captioning is the task of predicting a caption for a given image. Common real world applications of it include aiding visually impaired people that can help them navigate through different situations.

This guide will show you how to:

* Fine-tune an image captioning model.
* Use the fine-tuned model for inference. 

Before you begin, make sure you have all the necessary libraries installed:

```bash
pip install transformers datasets evaluate -q
pip install jiwer -q
```

We encourage you to log in to your Hugging Face account so you can upload and share your model with the community. When prompted, enter your token to log in:

```python
from huggingface_hub import notebook_login

notebook_login()
```

> ## Load the Pokemons dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Load the Pokémon BLIP captions dataset
```

> Use the 🤗 Dataset library to load a dataset that consists of {image-caption} pairs. If you are looking for a more customizable treatment of the dataset, you can follow [this notebook](https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/GIT/Fine_tune_GIT_on_an_image_captioning_dataset.ipynb). 

Reviewer 2: Why the curly brackets?

Author: Motivated from https://keras.io/guides/keras_cv/generate_images_with_stable_diffusion/

> Use the 🤗 Dataset library to load a dataset that consists of {image-caption} pairs. If you are looking for a more customizable treatment of the dataset, you can follow [this notebook](https://github.com/NielsRogge/Transformers-Tutorials/blob/master/GIT/Fine_tune_GIT_on_an_image_captioning_dataset.ipynb). 

Reviewer: > If you are looking for a more customizable treatment of the dataset

I'd also be more specific about what you're describing here, so users know exactly what to expect when they navigate away. You can say something like: To create your own image captioning dataset in PyTorch, you can follow this notebook.

Reviewer 3: +1 to this. I was not sure what the "more customizable treatment of the dataset" meant until I went to check the notebook.

```python
from datasets import load_dataset

ds = load_dataset("lambdalabs/pokemon-blip-captions")
ds
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: I think this code block showing `ds` can be merged with the block above.

Author: I didn't want to do it because the following cell is not of type "`py`". 

Users might directly copy-paste code from these cells. If we merged two cells together where one cell is of type Python and another one is of type Bash, it would results in an error.

DatasetDict({
    train: Dataset({
        features: ['image', 'text'],
        num_rows: 833
    })
})
```

> Notice that the dataset has got two features namely `image` and `text` which are self-explanatory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset has two features, `image` and `text`.
```

<Tip>

> Many image captioning datasets contain multiple captions per image. In those cases, a common strategy is to randomly sample a caption amongst the available ones during training. 

Reviewer 3: To make sure I understand correctly, does it mean that I have to sample? Or can I pass multiple captions to the model and let it sample by specifying some parameters?

Author: This process should be handled by the users in the data pipeline.

</Tip>

Split the dataset’s train split into a train and test set with the [`train_test_split()`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/main/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.Dataset.train_test_split) method:

```python
ds = ds["train"].train_test_split(test_size=0.1)
train_ds = ds["train"]
test_ds = ds["test"]
```

> Visualize a couple of samples from the training set. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's visualize a couple of samples from the training set. 
```

```python
from textwrap import wrap
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

def plot_images(images, captions):
    plt.figure(figsize=(20, 20))
    for i in range(len(images)):
        ax = plt.subplot(1, len(images), i + 1)
        caption = captions[i]
        caption = "\n".join(wrap(caption, 12))
        plt.title(caption)
        plt.imshow(images[i])
        plt.axis("off")

sample_images_to_visualize = [np.array(train_ds[i]["image"]) for i in range(5)]
sample_captions = [train_ds[i]["text"] for i in range(5)]

> plot_images(sample_images_to_visualize, sample_captions)

Reviewer: So cool! 🤩

```
    
<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/tasks/sample_training_images_image_cap.png" alt="Sample training images"/>
</div>

## Preprocess the dataset

> Since the dataset has two different modalities (image and text), the pre-processing pipeline will include pre-processing of the images as well the text (the captions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the dataset has two modalities (image and text), the pre-processing pipeline will preprocess images and the captions.
```

To do so, load the processor class associated with the model you are about to fine-tune. 

```python
from transformers import AutoProcessor

checkpoint = "microsoft/git-base"
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
```

The processor will internally pre-process the image (which includes resizing, and pixel scaling) and tokenize the caption. 

```python
def transforms(example_batch):
    images = [x for x in example_batch["image"]]
    captions = [x for x in example_batch["text"]]
    inputs = processor(images=images, text=captions, padding="max_length")
    inputs.update({"labels": inputs["input_ids"]})
    return inputs

train_ds.set_transform(transforms)
test_ds.set_transform(transforms)
```

> With the datasets ready, proceed to setting up the model for fine-tuning. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dataset ready, you can now set up the model for fine-tuning. 
```

## Load a base model

Load the ["microsoft/git-base"](https://huggingface.co/microsoft/git-base) into a [`AutoModelForCausalLM`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/auto#transformers.AutoModelForCausalLM) object.

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
```

## Evaluate

> For evaluating image captioning models, the typical metrics are [Rouge Score](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/rouge) and [Word Error Rate](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/wer). For this guide, you will use the Word Error Rate (WER). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image captioning models are typically evaluated with the [Rouge Score](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/rouge) or [Word Error Rate](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/wer). For this guide, you will use the Word Error Rate (WER). 
```

> Use the 🤗 Evaluate library to do so. For potential limitations and other gotchas of the WER, refer to [this guide](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/wer). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use the 🤗 Evaluate library to do so. For potential limitations and other gotchas of the WER, refer to [this guide](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evaluate-metric/wer). 
```

Author: @sgugger, 

Maintaining single first-person nouns here following @MKhalusova's advice from other PRs.

Reviewer 2: That's not the style of the doc and I read the imperative form as slightly aggressive, but your choice.

Author: I'm retrospect, I think adding what you suggested (We use ...) won't hurt the tone. 

@MKhalusova WDYT?

Reviewer 3: It's ok to make exceptions to the rule. I would say stick to first-person for the most part, but if it feels forced, it's ok to use "we".

```python
from evaluate import load
import torch

wer = load("wer")

def compute_metrics(eval_pred):
    logits, labels = eval_pred
    predicted = logits.argmax(-1)
    decoded_labels = processor.batch_decode(labels, skip_special_tokens=True)
    decoded_predictions = processor.batch_decode(predicted, skip_special_tokens=True)
    wer_score = wer.compute(predictions=decoded_predictions, references=decoded_labels)
    return {"wer_score": wer_score}
```

## Train!

> Now, you are ready to start fine-tuning the model. You will [🤗 Trainer](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.Trainer) for this. 

Reviewer: You will **use** the [`Trainer`] for this. :)

> First, define the training arguments using [`TrainingArguments`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.26.0/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.TrainingArguments). Then pass them along with the datasets and the model to 🤗 Trainer. To start training, simply call `train()` on the `Trainer` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, define the training arguments using [`TrainingArguments`]. Then pass them along with the datasets and the model to 🤗 Trainer. To start training, simply call [`~Trainer.train`] on the [`Trainer`] object.
```

```python
from transformers import TrainingArguments, Trainer

model_name = checkpoint.split("/")[1]

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir=f"{model_name}-pokemon",
    learning_rate=5e-5,
    num_train_epochs=50,
    fp16=True,
    per_device_train_batch_size=32,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=32,
    gradient_accumulation_steps=2,
    save_total_limit=3,
    evaluation_strategy="steps",
    eval_steps=50,
    save_strategy="steps",
    save_steps=50,
    logging_steps=50,
    remove_unused_columns=False,
    push_to_hub=True,
    label_names=["labels"],
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
)

trainer = Trainer(
    model=model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=train_ds,
    eval_dataset=test_ds,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics,
)

> trainer.train()

Reviewer 2: You should split this in several code blocks so it's split in several cells in the notebook. You can take parts of the texts on top to put between the code blocks!

```

> You should expect to see the training loss going down smoothly as training progresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see the training loss drop smoothly as training progresses.
```

> Once training is completed, share your model to the Hub with the [`push_to_hub()`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.Trainer.push_to_hub) method so everyone can use your model:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once training is completed, share your model to the Hub with the [`~Trainer.push_to_hub`] method so everyone can use your model:
```

```python
trainer.push_to_hub()
```

> ## Inference

Reviewer: I think it'd also be nice to show you can use the `ImageToText` pipeline

Author: See: https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/21514

Take a sample image from `test_ds` to test the model.

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests

url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/sayakpaul/sample-datasets/resolve/main/pokemon.png"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
image
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/tasks/test_image_image_cap.png" alt="Test image"/>
</div>
    
Prepare image for the model.

```python
device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"

inputs = processor(images=image, return_tensors="pt").to(device)
pixel_values = inputs.pixel_values
```

> Perform inference and decode the predictions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Call [`generate`] and decode the predictions. 
```

```python
generated_ids = model.generate(pixel_values=pixel_values, max_length=50)
generated_caption = processor.batch_decode(generated_ids, skip_special_tokens=True)[0]
print(generated_caption)
```
```bash

> a drawing of a pink and blue pokemon

Reviewer: I think the output will also look better combined with the code block above.

Author: Same as https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/pull/21512/files#r1100943522

```

> Looks like the fine-tuned model generated a good caption. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looks like the fine-tuned model generated a pretty good caption!
```
